# Analisis dan Clustering Makna Ayat Al-Qur’an dengan Mini Search Engine BM-25

The Quran contains various knowledge and serves as a guide to life for Muslims. When reading the Quran, Muslims are advised to read the translation of each verse in all surahs that have the same meaning. To facilitate Muslims, this research uses K-Means for clustering and BM-25 as the searching method. The proposed method includes preprocessing the Quranic text, calculating TF-IDF to measure the relevance of terms in the document, clustering using the K-Means algorithm, and using the BM-25 search method as a mini search engine. This methodology is expected to improve the ability to search for and group Quranic verses based on meaning, as well as provide more efficient access to users. In the search for the best searching method, BM-25 was found to have a score of 78.9. Furthermore, BM-25 was able to achieve a score of 97 in searching for the query "tidak" (not) in the Quran. However, the average score for regular queries was only 36.86, and 54.3 for queries with word similarity. This is a comprehensible mini project on the analysis and grouping of the meanings of Quranic verses using the mini search engine BM-25, which facilitates efficient access to information and enriches the understanding of Quranic studies and the spirituality of individuals who study it. It also inspires further research and the development of more advanced applications in analyzing the meanings of the Quran. The findings and methodology presented in this research can serve as a foundation for other researchers to continue studying in this field, expand the scope of analysis, and improve the performance of the mini search engine BM-25 to provide a deeper understanding of the meanings of Quranic verses for the Muslim community and the academic community.
